all right hey man so first of all I
wanted to apologize for having to cancel
on you a couple of times and just being
like literally unable to speak oh no
it's fine um so sorry about that
but we're here now and so thanks for
coming on yeah I'm nervous okay what are
you nervous about talking about ADHD in
front of everybody because uh it's I
don't know it's just something I don't
like to talk about well we don't have to
talk about ADHD no we I think I it's
almost like I want to okay I mean I turn
off both chats so I'm trying to like
almost pretend that it's just you and me
talking okay III want to talk about
Haiti because it's probably the thing
that to me is the most important to fix
okay cuz I I took out it all for six
years uh-huh I know what it's like to
almost not have ADHD but I feel like
it's this might sound weird I feel like
it's almost getting worse okay and I
think it has to do partially with being
on the Internet having three monitors
sure
seeing twitch channel Hey not reading
not doing these things but I I really
don't know how to fix it and it's it's
scaring me can you hold on I feel like
just one second sorry yeah sure
hello it's just reset disk or okay so
sorry Mitch give me a second okay
all right let's just go with it sorry
about that
um that's okay so you were saying that
you feel like your ADHD is getting worse
I yeah and I feel like I'm genuinely
getting dumber like it it scares me like
today for an example I woke up to get
cereal and I ate the cereal was walking
around my room doing stuff I don't
remember what I was doing but I left the
refrigerator open and I'd do that almost
every single day and it's embarrassing
because I don't want my roommates to
just see how dumb I could really be and
how much I forget so and I think I do
this kind of stuff all the time so it
sounds like when when you have when you
have an attentional problem it sounds
like you conflate that
you sort of lump that in with
intelligence or stupidity hmm but it's
like the thing is even with your
sentence that you just said I I days
that okay that's okay space-time so so
it sounds like when you space out you
think that that's like you feel stupid
you feel like it's an AI all the time
okay can I ask you how old you are 25
and have you been you've been diagnosed
with ADHD or a DD yeah how old at
sixteen sixteen okay and you said you
were on adderall for a while like six
years and six years so when were you
first put on our at all I was first put
on adderall at 16 and is there a
particular reason you stopped three
years ago I well I had a heart virus and
the if I kept taking it there was a
higher risk of me getting the heart
virus again so I pretty much was told
you can either take it and risk yourself
dying or you should stop taking it so I
stopped taking it and it I don't know
III don't know if it was I don't know
it's weird to be off because I I know
what it's like to be on adderall and it
was euphoric like I remember walking
around feeling having euphoric feelings
being like oh my god like this is what
this is the best feeling ever had in my
life like the best feeling ever had in
my life was on adderall going to a
doctor's office if that was the best
thing I ever had okay
and you know it's just weird to be off
of it and I just want to not I like
having ADHD I think creatively it helps
a lot but I just want to try to be able
to fix it and not think all the time of
just 20 different things cuz my brain
just goes everywhere and it really is
bad like me even just telling you the
sentence I'm thinking of the most of
random [ __ ] like I'm thinking my
friend's house drinking alcohol in July
of like 2016 okay for no reason can I
just think for a second okay
I'm just making a list of talking points
okay you feel like it's getting worse
right yes what do you mean by that I
just think it's harder for me to focus
on things I think like even just talking
to my girlfriend it's a lot of times I
days out a lot of times and it's not
just because she's saying stuff that
isn't interesting to me um I just I
can't focus on what she's trying to tell
me and she'll say something to me like
Matt I told you that five minutes ago
and I already forgot okay and I I hate
that I hate that I can't remember things
I hate that I can't focus on things I
hate that my brain is always everywhere
okay that I always have to get explained
everything it's horrible and but and
what affected the did the adderall have
on this stuff the adderall did it really
necessarily make me it didn't make me
remember as I guess it did kind of make
me remember more but it just made me be
able to focus more on what people are
trying to say so I was able to it I
could feel like Mike the car wheels
turning as whereas it said yeah sure in
my brain I felt I was able to listen to
people a lot more understand what
they're trying to say and want to talk
to them more about stuff okay when an
ADHD nowadays I just want to not listen
to what people say and shut up and just
sit there I don't know okay okay so miss
gif have you um have you watched any of
our streams before I tried to watch some
of them but then I started playing like
other games
okay no problem so sometimes I talked to
people about their feelings in your case
I would like to talk to you about that
but I think that there are two different
paths we can go one is to talk about
your experience of ADHD and also some
amount of like how you hate it and how I
think by extension maybe you hate or
frustrated with yourself for being this
way right so that's gonna be like a
little bit more in
emotional and personal the other thing
that we can talk about is like what is
880 d like like what's happening in your
mind and what are the things that make
whatever is happening in your mind worse
or better and what are the things that
you can do to potentially like even
improve it over time is it weird if I go
grab a piece of pain oh not at all a bit
back of a repeat saver yeah this is
gonna be challenged because I I'm I
don't know if you guys know this but I'm
an academic and as academics we like to
talk really really long like we just
like to just keep going so he's doing
well he's coping managing okay okay what
does an academic mean so I I have a
faculty position
so I teach and I my ivory tower so I get
in front of groups of people and I just
opened my mouth and I keep talking until
they're all asleep oh so your teacher
yes yeah I mean it's pretty much part of
the job yes wait which job twitch
streamer being a teacher no just talking
until people fall asleep or an ASMR
twitch streamer either I was a pen
I lost my pen who would have thought I
guess I can maybe maybe my twitch chat I
mean I I always learn better when I
write good let's talk about why that is
very good I don't know why you get so
excited
very good observation why'd you just get
so excited about that is it just the
interesting thing that I know about
myself no I think it's it's a very
important principle that if we
understand you'll better understand how
your mind works and how to get it to do
the things that you want it's a really
important data book to know okay
I also if in terms of like things that
make me remember more colors yeah like I
like I like vibrant colors I feel awake
me mature
did you find a pen I have found a blue
mark okay um so looks like a crayon yeah
maybe this thing won't work I'm sorry
from I think a waste of your time oh
pretty sure it's a crayon I know I guess
my kids have the same crayons they have
the little nub that lets them go up and
down all right okay I found a pen strong
work okay so I was gonna say we can talk
about like your feelings and what it's
like to have a Dede and your
frustrations and things like that or we
can talk about understanding what you
mean by a Dede because I think it's more
complicated than just a Dede so are not
uncomplicated there's a broader it's not
just an illness your mind is functioning
in a particular way so would you like to
learn how your mind works or would you
like to talk about the personal impact
of having a mind that works like that
the first okay so help us understand
what you mean by a Dede it when I think
of ATD I think it's almost like if I
can't like draw it like let's say this
is what reality is right but for some
reason when I'm with ADHD it's almost
like this is gonna sound so weird
this is how I really think of reality
where it's like this is what reality is
but I go in such a trance of just
thinking of other thoughts that my brain
starts to go different ways and I start
really having a different person think
I'm like just talking to you right now
I'm thinking of the Cheetos guy for what
rate there's no Cheetos around me but I
just words or I don't know why my brain
goes this way but I start thinking of
other things okay good
good observation yeah this is how I
would perceive like a tease okay that's
that's very good so that's something
that we call a tangential kind of
thought process where your mind starts
here and then it ends up going this way
and this way and this way and this way
and by the end of it you're like far
away from where you started right so
your mind you notice that your
experience of your mind tends to have
like a lot of randomness to it yeah and
I I do like the randomness a lot because
it's what makes me me like my friend
Dave said to me one day he said you
you've you have the best
word-association I've ever seen in my
entire life where and that's what makes
me I believe in a lot of ways funny
where I will hear someone say a word
pick it out and then think of an
abstract thought which makes a joke and
they're like wow that was funny or you
know so I do like a part of my HD a lot
and but a lot of it is it sucks like I
can't even I can't do basic thing I can
do it it's very difficult though it's
just like call my mom or really try to
remember anything yes it's so so we're
gonna talk about that okay so the first
thing that I want to do is reframe ad D
to something called avatar mind so Vata
is the Sun script word for one of these
things called a door shows but I want
you to think about it like the element
of wind
do you play RPGs
No so I you have like a mind that's like
the wind so the wind loudly Wow
sure so like you know how they're like
different elements right so like in
different games and then like elements
have properties so a wind mind is one
that blows really hard in one direction
and then like the wind it can kind of
stop right there's a gust of wind and
then there's nothing and then sometimes
the wind blows this way sometimes the
wind blows that way sometimes it stops
sometimes it starts again that's kind of
what your mind is like it's like all
these different gusts of wind it's not
like a mind like fire which is sort of
steady and stable and like burns and in
a consistent way it's also not like
water which sort of flows consistently
in a particular direction it goes all
over the place right hmm
yeah that's that's actually a good way
yeah all right so that's like the first
thing to understand is that each of
these mind types is adaptive in some
ways but maladaptive in other ways so
Charles Darwin studied finches which are
little birds and what he noticed is that
they have different kinds of beaks some
beaks are very like long and pointed and
some beaks are like short and powerful
and so long and pointed beaks aren't
better or worse than short and powerful
beaks the long pointed beaks can let get
into holes and like fine caterpillars
and stuff whereas the short powerful
beaks can let crunch seeds with me which
one is better
hmm they both are exactly so the first
thing to understand is that the vato
mind your mind is good at some things
and it's bad at other things right so
you know do you think that's with
everybody or do you think that's just
with ADHD people no I think it's with
everyone so fire minds have some
strengths and weaknesses water Minds
have some strengths and weaknesses wind
minds have some strengths and weaknesses
so your strength and so this is the
interesting this is what I don't like
about the pathology system so we say you
have an illness we miss out on the fact
of something very important that you
notice which is that your mind is
actually better than other people at
some things hmm like you're funnier your
word association is good
your dynamic you're actually a good
entertainer because no one knows what
they're gonna get when they watch you on
stream it's probably instrumental to a
lot of your success and it is a big part
of a lot of your failure you see that
mmm so we just have to understand that
this is how your mind works and there's
some things you're gonna be good at and
some things you're gonna be bad at and
the key to becoming successful is to
understand okay what can we capitalize
what can we like support about the way
of that my mind is and what do we need
to like account for or like kind of like
what what are the things that my mind
sucks at and how do we make that better
with me okay
the first thing is that generally
speaking your ability your minds ability
to focus on one thing at a time changes
over the course of your lifespan right
so like like let's think about what's
the difference between the mind of a
five-year-old a 15 year old a 25 year
old and a 35 year old let's start with 5
and 15 what what so five-year-olds mind
like not not strong what do you mean
just googoo gaga
I mean I don't know like they think they
just they their yes very good
pretty much like how I am nowadays so
what is that let's define that beautiful
point they just will be thinking of
something and then just think of
something else and see something shiny
and run away absolutely right so their
mind wanders a lot the attention of
their mind is not focused on one thing
for a long period of time
hmm so what changes when you're 15 uh
instead of random things it starts
becoming women's boobs sure so there's
more focus right and so like sometimes
there are particular objects that your
mind can retain its focus on so you
noticed another really important thing
which is that your minds ability to
focus is not the same it can be subject
dependent right so your mind can focus
more if if you are presented with the
right stimulus and can focus less if
you're presented with another stimulus
so what do you think mine is now that
I'm 25 just yeah so we'll get we'll get
there in a second so then what's that
are between a 15 year old and 25 year
old I guess I would probably say they
have they're an adult now they have work
yeah they have responsibility so what
does that mean for their mind how does
their mind work I'm instead of focusing
on like all about I would say it's
probably more if I describe it I guess
it's more water
very good easy beautiful what does that
mean though yeah I like when you smile
cuz I I sort of got your teacher right
sure
no teacher has ever smiled at me unless
I'm getting kicked out of the class like
they don't I've never had a teacher that
was like oh they enjoy it they were like
proud that I said something that's
shitty why I was always the class clown
like I I was I would say one joke to try
get kicked out like I knew I was gonna
get kicked out but I would just say to
me so misc if you're good at this so I
don't know if you realize this but like
you're giving me answers which are not
complicated explanations but capture the
essence of the answer
that's why I'm smiling because you can't
put into words but you [ __ ]
understand because when you say how what
is a five year olds mind like you
stumble around with your words which I
think sometimes makes you feel stupid
and makes other people maybe think that
you're stupid but then you do this that
captures a five year olds mind you see
that and then when I asked you I just
introduced 30 seconds ago
the concept of elements and mind and you
are already understanding that concept
in bringing it back to me a 25 year olds
mind is more like water you have in the
span of 60 seconds taking an entirely
new concept understood it you can
manipulate that information and you can
speak my language this is the strength
of Avada mind you learn incredibly fast
you can't focus on things for a long
amount of time but I can drop you in the
middle of nowhere where you don't
understand what the [ __ ] is going on
you'll understand what's going on in
four hours because your mind is so fast
at accumulating information right so a
dynamic scenario is gonna be good for
your mind what are you feeling you look
like you're feeling something I feel
happy I mean I I do feel stupid all the
time now and for someone to say that I'm
not dumb eh it's it's it makes me feel a
lot better I just feel nobody and but do
you get that I'm just not saying that to
be nice like do you do you agree with
what I'm saying like do you understand
how your mind is picking up new concepts
and like using them in a very rapid way
I I don't think I'm dumb Minh I know I
could be smarter I know I am genuinely a
smart person I wouldn't be where I am
today if I was just dumb you know I
obviously am smart in a lot of ways and
I know I understand things but I just
feel like that it's almost like a piece
of me is turned off right now and I
really want to try to turn it back on
but what I just did to you is I don't
know if you've been noticing I've
actually been staring
down not looking at the screen because
I've been able to focus a lot more just
staring at my keyboard just literally
trying to listen and there's one thing I
don't do enough at nowadays and I think
I just learned that with you is they
don't listen as much as I need to
because when I listen now I remember a
lot of things yes this is number one of
the points that I jotted down so I want
you understand your memory is not bad at
all
it's your attention that's the problem
right so yeah a lot of people with AD D
think they have bad memory so like when
you describe the fridge incident you
think I forgot because English is like
an unsophisticated language when it
comes to the mind you say I forgot to
close the door which implies that it is
a memory problem because the word forget
has to do with memory right but if we
think about memory memory is about
reaching into like the library of your
mind and pulling something out that's
not your problem you can actually pull
something out of your mind very easily
the problem is stuff doesn't go in so
your mind doesn't process because it is
distracted that the door is open in the
first place and what you're exactly yes
and what you're noticing now is that
you've somehow in the course of this
conversation figured out how to listen a
little bit better so what does that mean
that means that your attention is
actually focused on what I'm saying and
therefore you are learning and getting
the information in your problem is not
one of memory it's that the information
doesn't come in but sure and so how are
you listening to me now I'm just I am
trying to just focus all on my hearing
and just stare I'm literally just
staring at one keyboard or one key go
ahead so I I asked you how and what
you're doing is focusing your attention
on something sensory and somehow by
staring at a keyboard my words are
sinking in better
how about because there's no
distractions why aren't there
distractions very good misc
because I'm looking at one specific
thing like for example when I'm
streaming there's like three monitors
thousands of people in chat donations
people trying to get my attention one
with you right now it's just one
keyboard and then I'm just listening to
you so do you have a DD right now yes
yes I still do absolutely is it
affecting you the way that it does at
other times no not as much beautiful so
that's something we have to understand
right so the first thing to understand
is that just because you have a DD there
are literally things that you can train
yourself to do there are also
environmental things that you can do to
influence that your mind to do a better
job at what you want it to and you are
actually doing that right now so I'll
tell you exactly what's going on you
worry so normally your mind is a
thousand different things you were
focusing on one thing to keep all of the
other things at bay does that make sense
so your mind by focusing it on one thing
which is like a piece of paper your
ability to listen to my words actually
improves and you're already figuring you
figure to actually bisque if you figured
all this stuff out bizarrely it's great
and you've also noticed what is the
circumstance that leads you to have a
more ATD mind you've already talked
about it the circumstance that leads me
to have a more a dee dee yes distraction
yes
like what yes right so like if I'm out
with my like anybody like one one place
I have eighty mystic of somewhere but I
have ADHD more at grocery stores that
I've ever had in anywhere and that's
because I've noticed that it's if I've
tried to talk to my friend there's a
thousand different things behind him
that can grab my attention because
colors grab my attention a lot there's a
thousand different things that can grab
my attention
people talking noises and all those
things and they just I am completely out
of it when I'm at grocery stores or at
like a Walmart or something
yes but I feel like right here life it's
like it's a black keyboard there's
nothing else that's very stagnant like
what you said I feel that I can talk and
listen a lot more and also I feel like I
in general I could speak better yes
right so good so you're recognizing that
there are some kinds of environments
that are so your mind is prone to
distraction and so if you're in a high
stimulus environment with a lot of
different things coming at you it's
gonna amplify your vodka
it's gonna increase your ad D and if
you're in a low stimulation environment
then your minds ability to focus is
going it's gonna be better right so I
think unfortunately one of the the bad
things about our current society is that
technology and the rapidity of
Technology trains your brain to not
think about one thing mm-hmm
right so Twitter teaches our brain to
shift from one thought to another very
very rapidly
reddit teaches our brain to shift from
one thing to another very rapidly
there's some interesting research about
children and screen time so people are
wondering like what's the effect are if
people if kids watch like screens like
iPad or YouTube or whatever does they
make them more prone to ad D because ad
D is on the rise and it turns out that
it's not necessarily the screen it's
whether they watch something long form
or short form so if you watch an episode
of Sesame Street that's 30 minutes that
doesn't make them as a DD as watching
YouTube videos that are three minutes
long because your your brain is training
itself to shift its attention shift
shift shift shift shift
and your environment with streaming and
managing chat and stuff like that so by
the way you're also good at that right
you your mind can handle three different
monitors twitch chat donations this that
if you think about it like some people's
minds people's whose minds are like
water have trouble with that they're
like no man I just want to flow in one
direction and like I can't [ __ ] like
I'm sort of like this so I've trained my
mind - you know attend to this and I
find that like I do a really bad job if
I look at the donations and stuff it
completely derails me so I have to like
not look at chat and I don't look at my
viewer account and I don't look at any
of that because if I start doing that I
lose my attention with you so there are
some vulnerabilities that your mind has
and if you account for your
vulnerabilities it's gonna do a better
job so technology is gonna make your
mind more vayas gonna make your ATD
worse yeah a hundred percent it does
okay i i've noticed that i've tried to
stop looking at socials and stuff like
that because it's and also just
constantly trying to like well something
that i do a lot is i'll i'll open google
look at something close google go to a
game open google do something i don't
even realize i did it like it just comes
naturally i don't even mean to do it and
i i've been trying to it's not easy it's
very hard yeah i'm trying to do that way
less or scrolling through twitter
instagram why i never look at it so so i
want to point something out to you so
like the cool thing is that you may be
able to stare at objects to help keep
your attention focused right so what
you're doing is actually something
called a donna which is actually a
meditation technique so it is focusing
your attention on one particular thing
so now we're gonna talk about how to
make things better so the aggregate
amount of random-ass screen time that
you get exposed to is gonna make you
more a dee dee
yes so if you spend time doing other
activities you're literally giving your
mind like time to operate in a
particular way so it's sort of like you
know if you spend a bunch of time
walking it's not gonna make you better
at swimming but if you spend half of
your time in the water and half of your
time walking your body's gonna get good
at both things mm-hmm that makes sense
see like look that's good I like that
yeah so I don't know if you know this
miss gif but I tend to have very long
and complicated sentences that people
tend to have difficulty following really
I thought I liked that I thought that
analogy or I don't know what that is but
I like yeah so you're you're attending
right that's very good
so I want you to spend time the
dedicated amount of time every day
focusing on just like attending to one
thing right so whether that's a
conversation or whether that's this or
whether that's that and in terms of your
girlfriend if you want to you know
improve your relationship and not
frustrate her you guys both need to
understand that like if you're outside
at a grocery store your capacity to
attend to her is going to be decreased
yeah and so for you to even use some
language like hey it sounds like what
you're saying is important right now is
it okay if we just like go to a place
where I can really just listen to what
you're saying and maybe sit in the car
or something like that like so you can
you can delay those conversations and
it's a weird thing to tell someone but
if she yeah I just feel bad yeah why do
you feel bad because it just sounds I
feel so dumb that I have to say that to
someone like hey you I can't talk to you
right now because I can't folk like
we're just at a supermarket
I can't focus on what you're saying but
it's true I I know it's true because it
happens like we went to sushi and I I
couldn't for the life of me focus on
what she was doing because there was a
birthday party going on behind her there
was like
all this other stuff people walking
people talking it was raining and I just
eyes nothing I could focus on I couldn't
focus on anything she was saying I felt
terrible because I felt that's where I
felt so dumb so maybe I need to just
tell her we need there's times where I
can't focus on stuff cuz you said
there's pros and cons to my brain and
this is one of the cons that I have to
deal with absolutely right so this is
gonna be hard miss Kip but you have to
let yourself be where you are what does
that mean great question so a lot of
people are in a particular place right
so like they have certain strengths and
weaknesses and they beat themselves up
so much for being where they are that
they don't like let themselves be there
hmm
does that make sense yeah being present
being present you mean just not only
being present but like accepting that
you suck at some stuff that other people
find very easy and normal I'm fine with
sucking at most just like I I actually I
don't mind it what's up being bad a lot
of what bothers you so much about this I
I just I hate I feel like I'm not living
like I feel like I'm not and doing I'm
not enjoying conversations as much I
like it bothers me that I could see
people talking about stuff and I either
am just not enjoying it or be I just
don't I can't listen to them because I
just don't care or I hate that I have a
conversation with my mom and I just feel
like 20 seconds into the conversation I
stopped listening and I just start
saying okay yeah blah blah blah giving
generic answers and then I'm not
listening to the conversation what's
wrong with it I'm thinking of a hundred
different things
what's wrong with is I just feel like
I'm not being present and I hate not I
want to be present more because I hate
about not being present
I don't feel like I'm enjoying life I
feel like I'm missing out on a lot of
things by not being present because a
lot of times I'll be doing this with my
brain to try to make jokes and try to
make people laugh or try to entertain
and I won't be here and because I'm not
there and everyone else is there they're
all enjoying themselves with me the only
thing I'm doing the whole time is
thinking of random stuff to make jokes
and say stupid stuff and I know there's
a balance of it I've been there before
where my brains like disconsolate but
I've had a balance before where I was
able to enjoy myself and focus at
parties or focus at with someone but
also still be funny and I just want to
try to get to that balance more because
right now I feel like if there's like a
middle I'm sorry from these drawings are
weird but if there's like a middle where
I want to be I think this is like you
know over here it's like really you
could play like what's the water and
over here's air I want to be more in the
middle of water in air or as close to as
middle as like possibly very good so now
let me ask you something miss gift when
you write why is it easier for you to
explain things I don't know what so what
make the threats right there in front of
me so I want you to notice something
when you're not writing and you're not
focused on your keyboard what is the
speed of your thoughts can I see the
other side what do you have the
different boxes oh yeah
so how long does it take you to get from
the bottom-left box to the top right box
in about one sentence of Utah exactly so
when you're drawing something is your
mind focusing on one thought for a
longer period of time is your mind
moving slower
i spaced out he said oh yeah so when
you're drawing something is your mind
moving faster or slower than the boxes
slower when you write what is the speed
of thoughts that you think compared to
the thoughts that you write what I think
they're way faster what I'm writing its
way slimmer so now we understand when
you focus on a keyboard what is the
speed of your thoughts slower so all you
need to do is use certain techniques to
slow down your mind and the reason that
writing helps our memory is because we
literally sit on that thought for a
longer period of time than thinking does
that make sense if I write out you know
that h2o is water and water is a liquid
can be a liquid gas and solid that
sentence takes two seconds to think it
takes two seconds to say but it also
takes way longer to write and if I write
it my mind is literally sitting on that
thought for a greater amount of time and
the longer that we sit on a thought the
further in it sinks so for you to be
able to attend to conversations all we
need to teach you how to do miss give is
to slow down the speed of your mind
and you've already discovered many
things that slow down the speed of your
mind and the cool thing the really cool
things to just think about this for a
second when you slow down your mind
you're actually able to do the very
things that you feel stupid for not
doing like you can do it you just have
to duplicate what you're doing right now
yeah what do you think III still don't
think I can do as much as you think I
can do yes like III don't think I can go
to school and you get good grades like I
could on adderall okay it's just a
different beast yeah cuz I think there's
things that I suck at like school on
ADHD know what stuff like things you
think but I do think I can at least slow
down my brain on what makes you think I
think you can succeed at school maybe I
was wrong
so bisque if I think you I agree with
you that I think that I
have more faith in what you're capable
of than you think you do
and I also think that school is gonna be
a very difficult environment for you but
this is what I will say I think you
could be very successful without school
so school is for water people and fire
people it's for river people and you
know bonfire people it's not for about
that people so the other thing or
certain kinds of school so I think there
are other kinds of school that you could
do but like sitting in a like if you had
to like come and listen to my lectures
you'd be screwed actually my lecture
isn't pretty good I'm pretty good about
that but so you know if you have to sit
in front in a classroom and focus like
that is not what your mind is designed
for I don't think you're gonna ever
excel in that scenario but I think part
of the advantage of understanding Vata
is that in order to succeed in life you
don't have to be one of those people the
whole point of being vodka is to
structure your life so that you succeed
where wimpy I mean water people or fire
people would fail like extremists
exactly so I for example have four or
five jobs and what I found so when I was
failing out of college might so I went I
was a freshman in college playing it's a
bunch of video games also ran for like
student council joined a bunch of gloves
joined a fraternity took like two
different languages or actually in my
first year I took Spanish Japanese and
Mandarin no sorry Spanish and Japanese
and then Mandarin my second year and
then like so studied philosophy and was
majoring in like biology and all this
kind of crap my mind was all over the
place and I just failed like I had like
a 1.5 GPA and so my dad comes to me and
he says I'll look what you need to do is
just focus on studies like don't do any
of the other stuff so my second year I
dropped all the clubs stayed in the
fraternity still played video games what
do you think happened to my GPA is I
focused on
just 1.6 nope
1.4 oh nice let's close when even lower
and then so then what I said is like man
[ __ ] this I'm not even gonna take a full
class load I'm just gonna take two
classes so my second semester of my
sophomore year I just took two classes
and focused on those two classes even
more what do you think happened to my
GPA did it go up or did it go down were
used to playing video games probably
wouldn't probably stayed around there
went down so the fewer things that I
tried to do the the more I tried to like
make my life easy the worse I did so
then I go to India and I talked to a
buddy of mine who's an Ayurvedic
physician and I tell him I this is what
I've been struggling with what do you
think and he started laughing and I said
what's wrong he's like that's a terrible
idea for ovata
if you want to be successful as a Vata
you don't focus on one thing what you
need to do is juggle as many balls as
you can without dropping a single one
hmm you need to have when your mind gets
bored of something you need to have
something else for it to move to and
then when you get it bored of that you
need something else to move to and when
you to get bored of that you need to
have something else to get get bored and
by the time you get bored of the fourth
thing you can go back to the first one
and it's interesting again hmm so if you
want to if you're in school misc if
you're screwed
but if you're in school and you're
streaming and you're learning how to
cook you're gonna be capable of things
that other people are gonna think is
actually superhuman the water folks are
like how does he do it all because what
you need is because here's the cool
thing about your mind misc if you feel
dumb but when your attention is actually
focused like you probably feel brilliant
like you get that right that you're able
to pick up concepts way faster than the
average person
so all you need to do is instead of just
focusing on like one thing switch your
mind and let it focus on different
things and then you will actually be
able to move forward the problem is that
if you try to climb one mountain you're
gonna fail if you try to climb four
mountains you're gonna succeed so like
if Ida like just cuz I I swear I sound
like a two-year-old but I don't know why
I just writing makes things easier so
you're saying I get bored easily right
so and because I get bored easily I
should I having numerous thinks is a
good thing because it makes my brain
better so then like if I was to draw
what you're saying cuz I swear the
drawings helped me like Maya my
girlfriend she drew she read this book
about ADHD and she drew like the stuff
and I look at it every night and it's
it's to teach me how to focus and try to
be more present because that's a huge
putting I've been having a problem with
for years just trying to be present but
what you're saying so drawing just help
so what you're saying is like this where
it's like the first thing and then if
you don't like the you keep going and
juggling different things and then you
finally get to this one and when you
finally get bored with that by the time
your this one's so so the only thing
that's wrong with that is that big arrow
on the left side of the paper needs to
be down instead of up the arrow head is
in the wrong way so you go from thing
number this big one yeah so the arrow
head needs to be pointing down not up so
it goes back this yeah I was thinking
that it like it's never a no that's not
what you want if you if you go
never-ending you're gonna fail at all of
them right was that because you're never
gonna spend enough time on one okay so
what you need to do like you you know so
you can like what you want to do is come
back to square one and then work on that
and then when you get bored of square
one go back to task two and then move to
task three and then move to task four
and then in order for you to complete
any of those tasks you've got to go back
to
task 1 again and then work on that for a
while and then when you get bored of
that go back to 2 and you want to move
forward on all 4 of those things kind of
simultaneously but you need to create a
life where your dynamic mind instead of
forcing it to do something that it
doesn't want to do you sort of like
given an opportunity to like thrive in
the way that it normally functions so
what do you think I should do so I mean
I don't know practically how you spend
your days but like I think streaming is
good but I would think about like other
goals besides streaming that you work on
I have a affiliates probably - I move
for you but I have a game that I'm
working on as well good its yeah because
I've learned that I need to distract
myself from streaming because I think
about it all day that's all I think
about is streaming a my job and I'm
trying to think of other things like my
youtube channel that's a good one yeah
so I'm not quite that so I'm not quite
sure what your life is like in what
you're working on but like I would also
think about you know structuring your
girlfriend into that right so like like
make her a task in your mind that your
mind can focus on for periods of time so
if you spend five hours with her you're
gonna like lose attention but if you
spend like an hour with her like you can
probably do okay for an hour and then
you're gonna get bored and when you get
bored it doesn't mean that you don't
care about her or things like that and
you're gonna feel dumb you need some
some something to occupy your mind to
move it to so you essentially want to
rotate the focus of your mind because
it's naturally gonna want to move okay
so I think if if I'm with her I should I
should try or like it's it's really
anyone I mean you don't have to just
label just her like anybody cuz it's all
my friends - I should try to be in an
environment that doesn't have any
distractions and if I am the environment
with distractions I mean I don't have to
tell them like hey you know right now I
can't focus but try not to have more
serious conversations
at those places focus it more at places
like my house where yeah if we're just
in a room together okay so the cool
thing about that is if you start to do
that what do you think is gonna happen
to the quality of your conversations
you're gonna go up and how is that gonna
make you feel more attentive probably a
lot better what is better mean probably
more president sure more president how
is that gonna make you feel about
yourself smarter how does that feel it
feels great cuz I feel so so now misc if
we get to an interesting question if you
feel smarter do you think that has any
impact on your attention yes I would say
how well I think a lot of things that
come down to me is a lot of stuff when
it comes to me as confidence and I lack
a lot of confidence right now in my
attention and ability to be attentive
but I know what I'm more confident I'm
waste I'm better and I think that if
these things align they've like these
stars align and I start working more
towards better conversations with people
and focusing that I think I'll be more
confident and I'll be able to
yeah okay so we got to understand that
right so once again miss skip the cool
thing about this you actually have all
the answers I think what I would like to
help you do is understand the equations
behind your observations so how on earth
does confidence make you make your mind
less ATD like how does that work because
I think when when I have a th this is
gonna be made like a minute to figure it
out but I know the less confident I am
the more ADHD intensive I am because
this is gonna sound bizarre but when I'm
488 when I'm less confident and I feel
Dumber I
I look to ADHD more as like my way cuz I
try to just constantly think of instead
of like focusing on a conversation and
enjoying it I try to make jokes Alon and
I'll focus more on making jokes with my
ADHD which won't make it'll make my ADHD
do this times like five because now I'm
just if I'm in full ADHD I call it
[ __ ] mode so I'll go in the [ __ ]
mode and I'll start doing this times
like five and I'll just start trying to
make jokes constantly and get completely
derailed from conversation yes so so
let's understand this why do you start
making jokes when you feel when you
don't feel confident I don't know okay
I'm not gonna we're gonna nah not good
enough buddy I'm gonna dig so how do you
feel when you make a joke euphoric I
love it it's the it's one of my favorite
feelings ever is when I see people
thinking I'm funny okay enjoy so so
thank you so there's something within
you that says hey miss gif now it's time
to make a joke we need to make a joke
right and so what is what are you
looking for in the joke what am I
looking for I joking like something in
your mind wants that right a good
feeling yes okay since I'm approval yes
very good
now why do you need that sense of
approval
because I lack confidence in other areas
and I want people to I want to be people
to validate me
perfect right so look at how fast you're
answering this [ __ ] beautiful five
seconds ago you said what a video HD man
I don't remem you said I don't know Wow
right yeah I thought I don't yeah that
sounds that good I yeah and it turns out
that you do know so now the favela day
so what you're noticing is that you give
in to the ADHD process and you actually
support it you want it I'm right I'm
ready it yeah you you want that ADHD
process right because the ADHD process
makes you feel how you for it yeah it
makes me feel so so what you're doing in
that moment is actually like fertilizing
and growing the ADHD neurons in your
brain yeah I I definitely know that it
is so you're strengthening your ADHD to
protect you from what feeling from
feeling dumb yes I'm feeling very good
right so you feel dumb but if you can
make everyone laugh no one notices that
you're dumb and and you don't have to
pay attention to the conversation
because everyone's looking at your joke
and everything is fun and wonderful so
in a bizarre way if you become more
confident the fuel for your 80 the fuel
that you put into the ADHD gas tank
starts to go down you don't need that
part of you if you can feel confident in
yourself so do you think that with
streaming and with the lifestyle that I
live I've fueled that ADHD fire
massively because not I think I filled
it with multiple things I feel like I
fueled it with looking at socials all
the time Twitter's and stuff like that
and then I've also filled it a lot by
giving in to the ADHD process because my
stream is six hours a day and then if
I'm six hours trying to make jokes all
the time because it's my life I'm
feeling that ADHD fire because I'm
giving I don't I don't need I'm looking
for validation
through the 8-hd process so I'm feeling
that fire massively with streaming and
through also socials and three monitors
and everything else that's going on in
my life so that's making that fire
massive and then that's why I feel
Dumber today that I did like let's say a
few years ago I'm sorry was that a
question or was that a conclusion I
guess that was a conclusion also drawing
that absolutely right so this is Miss
gif what we call understanding yeah so
now you're kind of saying at the
beginning you said I feel like I'm
getting Dumber and my ADHD is getting
worse and if if I were to ask you how
does that work you need to go back and
watch the vote of what you just said
because that's how it works
mmm right because absolutely so you see
that like you're you're actually you
need the ADHD you rely on it you know
you're growing it or feeding it mmm but
I don't want to just feed it good
so you so this is where you got to meet
yourself where you are so right now it's
big it's gonna take time for it to grow
last week but the first thing that you
need to do is understand once again that
it comes with confidence so that there
are two solutions here one is to become
more confident and the second is to be
more tolerant of feeling stupid no III
I'm yeah I mean I I love feeling dumb
like I love when chat thinks I'm dumb or
they you know I love being an ad sup
yeah so I think that there are two kinds
of idiot here right this so now you have
to really tunnel and pay attention to
yourself because I think there's the
idiot that's funny and then there's the
feeling inside you that causes you to
joke that you try to get rid of by being
funny and being an idiot on stream those
are two different idiots yeah I would
agree that there's two different idiots
so one of them you're very comfortable
with because that's the mask that's the
ADHD idiot what you're not comfortable
with is the other one
yeah how do those feel different to you
I think when I'm trying to when I'm on
stream I don't feel as bad about feeling
dumb because they're thinking it's funny
and it's entertaining to them but then
when it's something the idiot the other
idiot is like like talking to my mom and
how I feel like when I talk to her
sometimes I I don't remember anything
and she's telling me Matt I told you
this five seconds ago like why don't you
remember or she's getting upset with me
that I didn't remember a text message or
any of those kind of things so there's
those the two different yep very
different very very different right so
it's good so once again English doesn't
have really a great way to differentiate
those but I mean I think you have this
sort of deep set kind of like idiot
complex that you try to run away from so
what we need to help you do so one is we
can help you be more confident by like
like and this is gonna be tricky because
you're gonna have to say things that are
gonna evoke that complex when you tell
your girlfriend hey I can't talk to you
about this right now because we're in a
grocery store you're gonna feel like an
idiot it's gonna bring that feeling up
so you got to be ready for it and then
you got to say what you're saying is
actually really important to me and I'm
sorry I'm trying to like I'm trying to
like learn how to concentrate better
well I don't want a lighter yeah but so
you just tell her like this is like so
if the funny thing is that she you know
oftentimes when people talk to other
people about their weaknesses and I tell
people how can I say this so if I'm like
working with a patient and I kind of
tell them hey like I'm gonna have to
cancel today I'm just not in the brain
space to where I think that I can really
like help you the way that you deserve
how do you think they feel
um if you did that to me I'd feel like
well I feel like you didn't care that's
just me okay I don't know I would have
it another person feel the yeah I didn't
care about you yeah but that's just me
yep I would say upset they wouldn't
think they'd be happy about it they'd be
like mmm lost maybe I can I can see why
you think that is it turns out it's
actually the opposite so in my UK III
know I know it's the obviously you can
you care a lot and you want to you want
to give as much attention as you
possibly can and you don't want look at
that fatha mind look at you saying one
thing and then being able to understand
the exact opposite when the span of a
second this is your strength but I don't
think that's that hard to understand
maybe I'm a dick do you think I feel
like anyone and can understand that no
yeah so this is something that we tend
to do right so most human beings and
this is true of everyone who is watching
at home we tend to devalue the things
that we're good at and over amplify the
things that were bad at yeah so you see
how you do that so that just reinforces
the lack of confidence because you're
not able to see that you're actually
exceptional in some ways all you see is
your fuck-ups yeah and we're taught that
from a very young age you know when
we're taught that 5 yeah right so when
we go to school and you get a 75 on a
test is that a good grade or a bad grade
my we I would be jumping for joy if I
got a 75 what about the average person
probably a little obscene yeah because
we always look at the 25 questions we
got wrong instead of the 75 questions we
got right yeah I do that a lot right I
think I think everyone those things
everybody is that like a human nature
too sure and it's reinforced by some of
our societal stuff so you have so the
cool thing so miss gif I think there's
hope for you and the reason I think
there's hope for you is because I think
you have learned and you have fueled and
cultivated some of these negative
patterns of viewing yourself in the way
that your mind works you know you've
done like bonsai sculpturing of your
mind and it like it grows in this weird
twisted way that's like based on a TD
you fuel the ATD because it protects you
from feeling stupid yeah so the cool
thing about that is that if you've grown
it and cultivated it one way you can
actually cultivate and grow it the other
way that'd be great you can do that
right and it starts and it's gonna be
difficult because what you have to do is
it starts with something as simple as a
conversation simple but hard with your
girlfriend that's gonna make you feel
dumb but bizarrely enough what she's
gonna hear is oh Miss gif is actually
trying to like do right by this
relationship
generally speaking you know if your
girlfriend tells you that she's having
difficulty with something and she wants
to do a really good job and can you give
her some time and space to do that how
does that make you feel if she says
something like that not okay with it
why don't you think she's dumb um
because
that's it I guess you're right yeah it
shows that she cares absolutely that
she's more what they're more willing to
care about like what's going on so it's
it's not bad it's a good thing because
they want to give you their full time
exactly right yeah and and so yeah so
miss gif what if I told you select do
you think what I do on stream is special
I would say of course yeah okay you're
very very unique yeah so how do you so
would it surprise you to learn that I
think that what I do on stream is
completely average in that anyone could
do it yeah I mean I'd say a lot of
redditors would probably say that they
could do your job but I think that they
can't yeah but I feel that way right cuz
I also overvalue my weaknesses and I
under value my strengths I think that's
a very common thing with streamers those
we we all do that I think I think chat
doesn't realize that but streamers in
general we all under value ourselves
massively and we all think of ourselves
less than what they think of us yep like
I really don't feel special and I don't
I know people think I have this massive
ego but I don't feel special at all
I feel very the opposite almost I in
some cases I wish I had more of an ego
so that way I could be more confident
yes so is that make sense yes but it
actually I think you probably do have
more of an ego because confidence and
ego or opposites they're not the same
thing so the more is that maybe an
English thing that I'm thinking it's
different yeah well I think English just
a lot of us don't understand how ego and
confidence works because we don't
explore it but generally speaking you
know the person who is more egoless so
think about someone who's egotistical
and think about someone who's confident
are those different people in your mind
I can't really think of an example
someone that's confident but I can think
a lot of people idiot istic oh yeah but
it's weird right cuz you say I can't
think of someone who's confident so your
mind is automatically saying that the
egotistical people are not confident
because you're looking for someone else
so actually ego is a cover for
insecurity it's the armor against
insecurity and confidence because in the
egotistical person their view of
themselves depends on themselves or
other people the other people what about
the confident person themselves
absolutely different right
beautiful so the confident person's
sense of self-worth comes from within
and the egotistical sense of self-worth
comes from without and if you are not
confident there is a high likelihood
that your egotistical because that's
just how our mind protects us from
insecurity it's a protective mechanisms
so I do have a huge ego possibly I don't
know so so I think you don't feel like
you have a huge ego because you don't
feel confidence in yourself right so
like the ego is what protects you when
you're feeling down so whether you have
a huge ego or not I can't really say I'm
not detecting much of an ego right now
yeah I mean like yeah I I feel like I
used to have way more of an ego and then
I don't have it as much anymore I did
like a year ago I had a huge yeah
nowadays not so much are you feeling
secure in yourself a year ago yeah
really
mm-hmm way more but I
I stopped feeling that way a lot more
last year as I grew as a streamer
because I I don't if you know this but I
like doubled my view count overnight
pretty much because I got banned or over
a week and in doing that I got a lot of
positive vibes and a lot of people that
were you know it was crazy but a lot a
lot of people also [ __ ] on me and then
people started getting hating on me and
getting sick of me and you know I
started getting hate which is something
I was never used to and hate like what
you just said before with we tend to
look at you know we've got a someone
will say something what were you saying
before is like we look at something and
it's like if the 75% right like we look
at the 25 that we got wrong that's
exactly how I is streamer and a lot of
other streamers look at the negative
comments that we get is we look at the
positive ones and we just glance right
through them but we'll see like one
negative comment and I'll sit with me
all night and it slowly has deteriorated
me I think it's a stream and absolutely
buddy that's just how we work man so you
have to you have to stop feeding those
neurons right so like you have to
acknowledge that oh this is my mind
because because what happens is the mind
looks for confirmation of what it
believes that's just how the mind works
so if you believe that you're doing a
bad job and you lack confidence in
yourself your mind is gonna go towards
the one or two things that support what
it already believes so I was once
working with a patient who was convinced
that their spouse was having an affair
and so they would do all kinds of weird
mental gymnastics that I like yeah they
came home late one night
and so that's evidence that they're
having an affair they said that they
were at work but I tried calling their
cell phone and it rang but they usually
don't get cell phone reception in their
building so I don't think they were at
work they must have been at a hotel and
once you believe something your mind is
going to look for any way to kind of
support that pre-existing belief right
yeah mm-hmm that's very true
look III will get some people will I've
gotten comments before people saying
like and this has definitely hurt my
confidence and I guess as made me create
an ego where it's I've gotten people
saying like oh man like like I miss old
miss kif where he was just an idiot and
was playing a game called marbles on it
is and like yeah I would just sit there
and play marbles all day and do that and
just listen to music and like oh I miss
that miss gif and I would ban them and I
would think on that a lock so I'm like
wow like have I really changed as much
it's like over the course of just a year
have I really as a streamer become this
like completely different beast where
nowadays my old viewers can't even
recognize Who I am they don't even
remember like they can't even watch me
because they don't they just missed who
I once was but then I uh I then I I they
messaged me and then I go in this huge
trance where I just started thinking
like oh my god they hate me bye old
viewers [ __ ] hate my guts they think
I'm a piece of [ __ ] like I don't know
what to do anymore like oh like all my
old you worst laughs but I'll message
them or they'll message me and they're
like yo dude I was just kidding it was a
joke I love your streams I have no
problem with who you are nowadays and I
like who you are and I'm happy for you
but yet you said we just go off in such
a trance and we look at one comma in
good school off the wall so absolutely
so I think it's a really common problem
I'm glad that you notice it and if it's
okay with you miss gif I want to go back
to a DD
yeah of course yeah so first of all how
long have we been talking
I would guess 42 minutes is that how
long we've been talking I don't know
okay I don't know
so how do you feel like your attention
has been over the course of this
conversation
I feel it's crazy like what I said I
mean like I've wrote your notes and like
I've been writing but writing and then
staring at the keyboard has helped me a
lot like my link and it helps me
understand like ego I think of it as
like just a circle and Hollow right and
then confidence I think of as you know
oh not a hollow circle yeah like a full
so yeah beautiful but but just like you
understand writing these things down
yeah I feel like I don't I don't I don't
feel like I'm like I feel like anyone
can get that yeah but I feel it's weird
when I when I do this stuff with you and
and and I I really listen and I've
noticed that when I listen to people
like let's say I'm talking to one of my
friends and I really am trying to pay
attention what they're saying the wheels
start turning and it makes my day better
because I feel like almost like these
cog wheels that have you know webs on
them that haven't been being used are
being turned and it now makes me more
focus throughout the entire day yes
beautiful right so this is why I've hope
for you because that too so you by the
way basic if you're beautiful with
imagery because like ego is a shell
that's what it is right and confidence
so what people say about ego versus
confidence is that ego is iron on the
outside and water on the inside and
confidence is water on the outside and
iron on the inside so right so like
really hard exterior with like jelly in
the middle whereas confidence like you
let stuff slide over you you don't
resist it but on the inside nothing can
touch you yeah so that's sort of a
Chinese approach to ego and confidence
but how do I get more confidence but so
I think you're already discovering right
so you actually have the answer right
there so first of all that attention and
concentration
is a skill that can be trained so when
you say I have cog wheels that are like
covered in webs and aren't moving
properly absolutely so when you train
your attention you can actually start
the flow of that machine in a positive
way and all it takes is practice because
in the same way that sometimes you feed
the ADHD a conversation like this a
conversation with your girlfriend where
you are attentive actually levels up
your concentration skill so this is a
big is it weird that I I don't know I
feel like right here is that normal like
you feel yeah that's it that's your
third eye maybe so as you are understand
things I wouldn't be surprised if you
feel things here because this is where
understanding comes from not information
but understanding that's a conversation
for a separate day but I'm not surprised
at all so I want to just get to a couple
of other points what actually I want to
mention to you the first is that your
concentration will continue to improve
until you're about 32 so the brain
though I'm not alone no you're not so
your frontal lobes which are responsible
for things like impulse control the
focus of your attention and executing
long complicated tasks that's the
difference between a five year old a
fifteen year old a 25 year old and a 35
year old its frontal lobe development
delaying gratification controlling your
impulses that's what we call quote
unquote maturity right so five year old
mind is all over the place fifteen year
old can concentrate on boobs and every
once in a while they can focus on their
physics test a twenty five year old can
go to work most days and be like kind of
stable but still like on the weekends
like doesn't have quite their [ __ ]
together now thirty five-year-old does
things like pay taxes and contribute to
their IRA and 401k that's maturity that
frontal lobe development ends around 32
but it's my hypothesis is that that is
changing in our society and that our
frontal lobes actually have a delayed
maturity because of the influences like
Twitter and things like that
so you're gonna get better at this just
naturally like your brain is literally
gonna develop okay okay second thing is
that if you reduce your Vata so control
the influences that make your mind more
wind like you will get better at this so
to spend time every day writing or
concentrating on keyboards or like
learning to do art or creating music or
something like that something that
engages your attention so we don't want
you to like read textbooks on
biochemistry we want you to do something
that engages your attention more
naturally over an extended period of
time so we've been talking for about an
hour and 20 minutes and it feels to you
like 45 minutes hmm
but your mind has actually been way more
focused than I think like you give it
credit for you have not defaulted to
making jokes and things like that your
ADHD has been more restrained and so
this is a skill that you can learn next
thing is how are your bowel movements
really yes they feel like in general you
have like more than one a day you have a
lot of bowel movements or what's going
on tell me about them constipated mmm I
was when I was younger I stopped to take
one of those things and you're a
suppository yeah because I couldn't
I never yeah [ __ ] I think like at least
once a day okay and you go at the same
time every day no if they don't think so
now okay and are they like or they like
stinky or they like kind of like one log
look what is it like
I would say it's not one log it's like
way it's like five pieces long okay so
are there are times that so what like
are there are there certain things that
you can eat that make it one log I know
it's a weird question have you I have no
okay so there's a there's a growing so
in Ayurveda the way to reduce vada is
through the bowels so you have to fix
constipation and reduce gas production
so the crazy thing is that like i
Rather's been saying that for thousands
of years but now they're actually
Studies on the brain got axis which show
that everything from autism to
depression and anxiety can be changed by
changing your gut bacteria they did a
wild study where they did stool
transplants from depressed mice
so they took mice that are depressed so
they can measure mice depression by like
how much they play in their cage and how
curious they are and things like that
they also have like a terrible test that
they do to my switches they drop them in
water and they see like how long the
mice mouse fights before it gives up and
like like lets itself drown and more
depressed mice will give up more easily
and less depressed mice will fight for
life okay they don't actually let them
drown but they pull about when they give
up so the interesting thing is they took
a group of not depressed mice and they
took a group of depressed mice they
extracted stool not extracted but they
took the stool of a depressed Mouse
transplanted it into a non depressed
mouse and the mouse became depressed
so there are some kinds of gut bacteria
that are higher in people with anxiety
disorders and some kinds of gut bacteria
that are lower in people with anxiety
disorders least scientifically valid
evidence I work with some people at this
place called the Lurie Center which is
like a center for autism at Mass General
Hospital in Harvard Medical School they
do a lot of stuff on behavioral
disturbance for people with autism so
sometimes people with autism get really
behaviorally dysregulated and they get
angry and they'll do head-banging and
things stuff like that that altering
their diet and giving them other kinds
of like iron and things like that and
smoothing out their bowels actually
reduces behavioral disregulation and
people with autism unpublished data all
clinical so it's like anecdotal but like
when people come from all around the
world to come to the Lurie Center when
their kids have autism and like this is
what some of the clinicians there do so
your bowel movements need to be smoother
so you need to think about what foods
will contribute to like big logs okay
I think you're 80 do you know what foods
would yes so high fiber foods cooked
foods you want cooked vegetables things
like sweet potatoes are ideal root
vegetables are good for you the other
thing that you can do is you can order
fenugreek seeds take about a teaspoon of
fenugreek seeds put them in water
like three to four ounces of water at
night and in the morning drink them on
an empty stomach
will reduce your Vata okay make sure you
talk to your doctor about all this stuff
before you start it but should be safe
the last thing so to think about bata
there's some dietary things that you can
do you can focus it and attend to your
concentration and I'm gonna have to run
in a minute so I'll give you a chance
for questions let me just see okay I've
got six minutes so your frontal lobe is
going to develop right so you can do
improve your constipation let me just
think for a second it'll warm two things
that yeah and the last thing is kind of
coming back to this confidence point so
I want you to understand that the state
of your mind emotionally is going to
make you more vulnerable to the ATD
thinking or less vulnerable to the ATB
thinking what do you mean by that so
when you feel less confident
remember when you feel bad about
yourself you the a D D is gonna activate
to be a joker and make you feel less bad
so working on your confidence is gonna
be important but working on your
confidence is gonna be tough because you
have to admit the feelings of stupidity
right you have to acknowledge those and
face those you're gonna feel a little
bit dumb when you tell your girlfriend
hey I can't talk to you in a grocery
store because my mind is weak that's not
really what it is but you're gonna have
that feeling you got to just acknowledge
that feeling and then sort of try to
tell her that you know you I really care
about your relationship and I'm trying
to work on this and I want to practice
listening to you the cool thing is that
as you level this skill up your ability
to talk to her in a grocery store is
gonna get better
yeah you just got a level up mm-hmm
no that's it's I have a lot of good
stuff yeah last thing is you gotta
meditate buddy so meditation is
literally like doing push-ups for this
part of your brain there's a stream that
I did that hopefully is on YouTube about
da da da da daaaa is the Sun script word
for concentration but concentration and
one pointedness of the mind is a skill
that you can develop some people are
naturally
or at it some people have more
difficulty with it but it's like
literally something you can get better
at okay yeah I I've been told that
meditating is going to the gym something
good yes but it's not going to help I
mean so you should go to the gym for
other reasons there are all other things
that we haven't gotten to about the way
that your mind works and how a TV works
and stuff like that so the other thing
anyway so we can maybe have a follow-up
but there are other points on my talking
list that I just haven't gotten around
to but no I would love to you questions
thoughts from the chatter from me anyone
everyone oh I think I I got it I really
got a lot like I'm actually ridiculously
happy I cuz I go I went in here I didn't
know if you were gonna be able to help
me at all but I what I've learned a lot
that I wrote it down because it helps me
is that I I try to validate like I give
in to my ADHD process all the time
because if Bala dates me and makes me
feel better but by giving into the ADHD
process it makes this go haywire which
is making my it's fueling my fire of
ADHD it's making my you know what does
it call and I'm like the gust of wind
Vata about the it makes me go for it
makes that timez5 into like a crazy
storm because I'm feeling that fire
massively I'm making it worse
and I shouldn't do that I to learn
slowly to focus over time to have good
conversations to understand people and I
need to also understand that there's an
idiot that's funny and then there's the
idiot that doesn't remember things and
the idiot that's funny is fine but I
need to learn to talk to people to
understand people to grow less of an ego
and have more confidence in myself so
that way because confidence is less ADHD
intensive and an ego is just me
increasing this because just feeling my
fire so can we get a [ __ ] round
applause cuz you just tied it just think
about all of the different directions
you just wove together in like 90
seconds confidence what you're fueling
yeah so many different things why you do
it
you just beautiful man
beautiful watch that like you guys get
that like that wasn't that like that is
a better summary than I could put
together
sounds like someone was [ __ ] paying
attention yeah good job I know I could
do it I don't know I just have a lot
like I said I have low confidence that I
can pay attention anymore but I good I
think from this I learned that I can I
just there's different I know I can I
think again I know I can it's just I
need to there's different states and
there's different ways to focus like
staring at one thing does help try to
have it less distractions as possible
I think meditating I'm gonna try to read
so it's I want to give you a particular
practice on meditation so I got a my
parking meters about to run out and I'm
in Boston where they like give us
tickets and I've got 37 seconds so I
want to teach you this though okay so I
want to just leave you with this so sit
up straight close your eyes tell me what
you felt in your forehead it felt tingly
okay I want you to put but your middle
finger like a millimeter away from where
it felt tingly
touch good just and keep it there right
so middle finger right here good yep
just focus on the sensation do you feel
tingling or warmth hmm just focus on
that now let your arm come down relax
keep your eyes closed and just continue
to focus on that spot
focus on the tingly sensation thoughts
may come so be it
your mind may wander but just return to
that tingly sensation and now I want you
to drive your attention into it I want
you to imagine your attention like going
into a funnel and it kind of starts like
in your head and then it focuses down
and like comes to a point and then
please pushing out of your forehead and
that's that tingly nassif eel that's the
that's your attention kind of flowing
into that does that make sense no but I
feel the tingling
okay so then just focus on the tingle
yes
good now open your eyes how was that oh
cool I mean I brain was going crazy
closing my eyes like it was I was
thinking of chicken nuggets eating with
McDowell tell you it's just like Mario
Kart Yoshi chicken nuggets winter okay I
like it was just so sorry Adam so now
what we need to do is I want you to
practice a half leaded gaze okay
so I'll teach you one more thing so you
shouldn't do meditation with your eyes
closed
so the half-witted gaze is kind of just
like just as kind of zone out and stare
it so turn there's a picture somewhere
look so look look at one of your
pictures okay so sit up straight
half flitted gaze focus on the tingling
is your mind has less thought or about
the same Oh way less good so you need to
do half I open meditation half flitted
gaze very good you can come back is that
because I'm focusing on one object like
ideal Mikey so you need pattern ideally
I could teach you through attica but so
we're gonna have to think about that but
I want you to focus on that tingling
sensation and gaze at something look
okay thoughts or questions we wrap it
wrap up how long do I do that for how
long do you think like as long as I can
15 minutes 15 minutes is gonna be a lot
I'd start with 3 to 5 but 3 to 5 minutes
yeah don't beat yourself up and get do I
do it like once a day what do you think
whenever I want what do you think about
that I think it's good to meditate
whenever you could possibly can so I
could do this kind of on the road done
right if I could just stare at something
and then just focus on that middle yeah
so be careful if you're driving so so I
think that so you have to balance your
Vata which is that you want to do it at
random times versus recognize that if
you do it at random times you're also
feeding Vata okay so I should I should
do it in an area where it's calm calm
and also you should try to build
consistency but it's better that you do
it everyday as opposed to like not doing
it you know like like I would try to
build some consistency in your practice
so if you have any anger in your day
like if you you know wake up in the
morning and then like if you go for a
walk or like it when you like take a
piss or something like that
you know spent your you're in Austin so
go outside and especially at dawn or
dusk would be ideal like you pick an
object that's outside like a tree you do
half flitted gaze towards the tree
okay I could do that okay any last
thoughts or questions before you wrap up
for the day if chat has anything I'm
happy with it I learned a lot I feel
really good week if I don't know if it's
possible could we do this next week I
don't know about next week but we'll
definitely like message you and we'll
set up a time but yeah cuz I would love
to do this yeah let me see if we can do
it next week okay all right meds strong
work good luck and and just because you
feel that idiot doesn't mean that you
need to give in to him I won't I'll try
to do it less all these things okay
awesome man
strong work I feel happy good look at
that
what take care of man yeah that's weird
letter yeah it's weird he feels happy
like it's weird like he like paid
attention for like an hour and a half
like that's crazy
okay twitch chat so miss gif is awesome
he's great and I think he's gonna be
okay
right so it's gonna be hard it's gonna
be a tough road it's gonna take him
years
just between us and you but he's gonna
do it it's gonna I'd like to help them
out so yeah parking meter hopefully I
don't get a ticket so listen guys I want
to thank everyone again so I saw that
we've had a bunch of gifted subs and
stuff
hearts hold Charlotte profound soups
nifty like I buttered llosir sup God so
many gifted subs wow that's me
nine days ago okay but so anyway thank
you guys very much for all of the
support we're gonna be streaming I think
Sunday we may change the time and I
think we're gonna have follow-ups next
week with people like Bobbi scar and
maybe Mitch and we're gonna do this chat
we're gonna do this we're gonna help
these people and you guys are gonna help
them too and if you all are fans of Miss
gif so like try to help him out when it
comes to you know the negativity versus
positivity
and we're gonna do this these guys like
y'all are gonna be like they can get
better
you guys can get better I can get better
we can all get better like it's good
it's doable we just have to understand
like the problem here is that we're
playing a game without a tutorial like
that we play the game of life and no one
teaches us like no one has explained to
miss gif how his mind works right like
he's like it's like imagine if you're
playing a game and you have you know
like a keyboard in a language that you
don't understand and so you have to
understand how you work because he's not
dumb he's actually brilliant you guys
see that like how like we talked about a
lot of stuff you fast he moved really
fast that's what he's good at he just
needs to create a situation where his
mind can thrive like that and and like
like yeah his summary was like I
couldn't do that guys I could not do
that and he just learned it for the
first time and look at how he summarizes
is a beautiful beautiful so listen thank
you guys very much hopefully this was
helpful for you all too if you guys feel
like you're a you have a TD or that
you're dumb or things like that probably
not the case right so like I know that
you feel that way but a lot of the stuff
that that we talked about with him
should apply to you too because gaming
Twitter you know YouTube all of these
things at which all of these things are
gonna enhance the vittatus of your mind
so don't feed those and try to spend
some time focusing your attention on a
particular thing okay so thank you guys
very much thanks for the subs and you
know if you guys have signed up for
coaching or the beta hopefully software
you guys should get communications soon
and we're gonna start training our next
batch of coaches maybe in March or April
and so hopefully we'll get more people
from the beta enrolled and in a couple
months too so thank you guys very much
I'll see you all on Sunday strong work
today oh and who are we waiting let's
raid someone
can we what's right destiny see okay oh
let's sir just raise me okay miss gif is
live what's written just guys send them
some positivity right by the way for
those of you guys who don't know for
those of you guys who don't know he
figured out the charging the laser beam
thing you guys see that right so we'll
talk about that too okay take care guys